motion_primitives_forward_controller/README.md, before:

motion_primitives_forward_controller
==========================================

Package to control robots using motion primitives like LINEAR_JOINT (PTP/ MOVEJ), LINEAR_CARTESIAN (LIN/ MOVEL) and CIRCULAR_CARTESIAN (CIRC/ MOVEC)

[![Licence](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache-2.0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)


This project provides an interface for sending motion primitives to an industrial robot controller using the `ExecuteMotionPrimitiveSequence.action` action from [control_msgs](https://github.com/ros-controls/control_msgs/blob/motion_primitives/control_msgs/action/ExecuteMotionPrimitiveSequence.action). The controller receives the primitives via the action interface and forwards them through command interfaces to the robot-specific hardware interface. Currently, hardware interfaces for [Universal Robots](https://github.com/UniversalRobots/Universal_Robots_ROS2_Driver) and [KUKA Robots](https://github.com/b-robotized-forks/kuka_experimental/tree/motion_primitive_kuka_driver) are implemented.

- Supported motion primitives:
  - `LINEAR_JOINT`
  - `LINEAR_CARTESIAN`
  - `CIRCULAR_CARTESIAN`

If multiple motion primitives are passed to the controller via the action, the controller forwards them to the hardware interface as a sequence. To do this, it first sends `MOTION_SEQUENCE_START`, followed by each individual primitive, and finally `MOTION_SEQUENCE_END`. All primitives between these two markers will be executed as a single, continuous sequence. This allows seamless transitions (blending) between primitives.

The action interface also allows stopping the current execution of motion primitives. When a stop request is received, the controller sends `STOP_MOTION` to the hardware interface, which then halts the robot's movement. Once the controller receives confirmation that the robot has stopped, it sends `RESET_STOP` to the hardware interface. After that, new commands can be sent.

![Action Image](doc/Moprim_Controller_ExecuteMotion_Action.drawio.png)

This can be done, for example, via a Python script as demonstrated in the [`example python script`](https://github.com/UniversalRobots/Universal_Robots_ROS2_Driver/blob/main/ur_robot_driver/examples/send_dummy_motion_primitives_ur10e.py) in the `Universal_Robots_ROS2_Driver` package.

## Architecture Overview
The following diagram shows the architecture for a UR robot.
For this setup, the [motion primitives mode of the `Universal_Robots_ROS2_Driver`](https://github.com/UniversalRobots/Universal_Robots_ROS2_Driver) is used.

![UR Robot Architecture](doc/ros2_control_motion_primitives_ur_integrated.drawio.png)


# TODOs/ improvements
- Use references for command and state interfaces to improve code readability and less error-prone.
- Extend the tests
   - Test for a sequence of multiple primitives
   - Test for canceling movement

Commit message:

added demo videos to readme

motion_primitives_forward_controller/README.md, after:

motion_primitive_controllers
==========================================

Package to control robots using motion primitives like LINEAR_JOINT (PTP/ MOVEJ), LINEAR_CARTESIAN (LIN/ MOVEL) and CIRCULAR_CARTESIAN (CIRC/ MOVEC)

[![Licence](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache-2.0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)


This project provides an interface for sending motion primitives to an industrial robot controller using the `ExecuteMotionPrimitiveSequence.action` action from [control_msgs](https://github.com/ros-controls/control_msgs/blob/motion_primitives/control_msgs/action/ExecuteMotionPrimitiveSequence.action). The controller receives the primitives via the action interface and forwards them through command interfaces to the robot-specific hardware interface. Currently, hardware interfaces for [Universal Robots](https://github.com/UniversalRobots/Universal_Robots_ROS2_Driver) and [KUKA Robots](https://github.com/b-robotized-forks/kuka_experimental/tree/motion_primitive_kuka_driver) are implemented.

- Supported motion primitives:
  - `LINEAR_JOINT`
  - `LINEAR_CARTESIAN`
  - `CIRCULAR_CARTESIAN`

If multiple motion primitives are passed to the controller via the action, the controller forwards them to the hardware interface as a sequence. To do this, it first sends `MOTION_SEQUENCE_START`, followed by each individual primitive, and finally `MOTION_SEQUENCE_END`. All primitives between these two markers will be executed as a single, continuous sequence. This allows seamless transitions (blending) between primitives.

The action interface also allows stopping the current execution of motion primitives. When a stop request is received, the controller sends `STOP_MOTION` to the hardware interface, which then halts the robot's movement. Once the controller receives confirmation that the robot has stopped, it sends `RESET_STOP` to the hardware interface. After that, new commands can be sent.

![Action Image](doc/Moprim_Controller_ExecuteMotion_Action.drawio.png)

This can be done, for example, via a Python script as demonstrated in the [`example python script`](https://github.com/UniversalRobots/Universal_Robots_ROS2_Driver/blob/main/ur_robot_driver/examples/send_dummy_motion_primitives_ur10e.py) in the `Universal_Robots_ROS2_Driver` package.

## Architecture Overview
Architecture for a UR robot with [`Universal_Robots_ROS2_Driver` in motion primitives mode](https://github.com/UniversalRobots/Universal_Robots_ROS2_Driver).

![UR Robot Architecture](doc/ros2_control_motion_primitives_ur.drawio.png)

Architecture for a KUKA robot with [`kuka_eki_motion_primitives_hw_interface`](https://github.com/b-robotized-forks/kuka_experimental/tree/motion_primitive_kuka_driver/kuka_eki_motion_primitives_hw_interface).

![KUKA Robot Architecture](doc/ros2_control_motion_primitives_kuka.drawio.png)

## Demo-Video with UR10e
[![UR demo video](doc/moprim_forward_controller_ur_demo_thumbnail.png)](https://youtu.be/SKz6LFvJmhQ)

## Demo-Video with KR3
[![KUKA demo video](doc/moprim_forward_controller_kuka_demo_thumbnail.png)](https://youtu.be/_BWCO36j9bg)


# TODOs/ improvements
- Use references for command and state interfaces to improve code readability and less error-prone.
- Extend the tests
   - Test for a sequence of multiple primitives
   - Test for canceling movement
