velocity_controllers/doc/userdoc.rst, before:

:github_url: https://github.com/ros-controls/ros2_controllers/blob/{REPOS_FILE_BRANCH}/velocity_controllers/doc/userdoc.rst

.. _velocity_controllers_userdoc:

velocity_controllers
====================

This is a collection of controllers that work using the "velocity" joint command interface but may accept different joint-level commands at the controller level, e.g. controlling the velocity on a certain joint to achieve a set position.

The package contains the following controllers:

velocity_controllers/JointGroupVelocityController
-------------------------------------------------

This is specialization of the :ref:`forward_command_controller <forward_command_controller_userdoc>` that works using the "velocity" joint interface.


ROS 2 interface of the controller
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Topics
,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,

~/commands (input topic) [std_msgs::msg::Float64MultiArray]
  Joints' velocity commands


Parameters
,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
This controller overrides the interface parameter from :ref:`forward_command_controller <forward_command_controller_userdoc>`, and the
``joints`` parameter is the only one that is required.

An example parameter file is given here

.. code-block:: yaml

  controller_manager:
    ros__parameters:
      update_rate: 100  # Hz

      velocity_controller:
        type: velocity_controllers/JointGroupVelocityController

  velocity_controller:
    ros__parameters:
      joints:
        - slider_to_cart

Commit message:

Deprecate forward_command_controller specializations (#1913)

velocity_controllers/doc/userdoc.rst, after:

:github_url: https://github.com/ros-controls/ros2_controllers/blob/{REPOS_FILE_BRANCH}/velocity_controllers/doc/userdoc.rst

.. _velocity_controllers_userdoc:

velocity_controllers
====================

This is a collection of controllers that work using the "velocity" joint command interface but may accept different joint-level commands at the controller level, e.g. controlling the velocity on a certain joint to achieve a set position.

The package contains the following controllers:

velocity_controllers/JointGroupVelocityController
-------------------------------------------------

.. warning::

  ``velocity_controllers/JointGroupVelocityController`` is deprecated. Use :ref:`forward_command_controller <forward_command_controller_userdoc>` instead by adding the ``interface_name`` parameter and set it to ``velocity``.

This is specialization of the :ref:`forward_command_controller <forward_command_controller_userdoc>` that works using the "velocity" joint interface.


ROS 2 interface of the controller
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Topics
,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,

~/commands (input topic) [std_msgs::msg::Float64MultiArray]
  Joints' velocity commands


Parameters
,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
This controller overrides the interface parameter from :ref:`forward_command_controller <forward_command_controller_userdoc>`, and the
``joints`` parameter is the only one that is required.

An example parameter file is given here

.. code-block:: yaml

  controller_manager:
    ros__parameters:
      update_rate: 100  # Hz

      velocity_controller:
        type: velocity_controllers/JointGroupVelocityController

  velocity_controller:
    ros__parameters:
      joints:
        - slider_to_cart
