force_torque_sensor_broadcaster/doc/userdoc.rst, before:

:github_url: https://github.com/ros-controls/ros2_controllers/blob/{REPOS_FILE_BRANCH}/force_torque_sensor_broadcaster/doc/userdoc.rst

.. _force_torque_sensor_broadcaster_userdoc:

Force Torque Sensor Broadcaster
--------------------------------
Broadcaster of messages from force/torque state interfaces of a robot or sensor.
The published message type is ``geometry_msgs/msg/WrenchStamped``.

The controller is a wrapper around ``ForceTorqueSensor`` semantic component (see ``controller_interface`` package).


Parameters
^^^^^^^^^^^
This controller uses the `generate_parameter_library <https://github.com/PickNikRobotics/generate_parameter_library>`_ to handle its parameters. The parameter `definition file located in the src folder <https://github.com/ros-controls/ros2_controllers/blob/{REPOS_FILE_BRANCH}/force_torque_sensor_broadcaster/src/force_torque_sensor_broadcaster_parameters.yaml>`_ contains descriptions for all the parameters used by the controller.

The interfaces can be defined in two ways, using the ``sensor_name`` or the ``interface_names`` parameter:
Those two parameters cannot be defined at the same time.

Full list of parameters:

.. generate_parameter_library_details:: ../src/force_torque_sensor_broadcaster_parameters.yaml
  parameters_context.yaml

An example parameter file for this controller can be found in `the test directory <https://github.com/ros-controls/ros2_controllers/blob/{REPOS_FILE_BRANCH}/force_torque_sensor_broadcaster/test/force_torque_sensor_broadcaster_params.yaml>`_:

.. literalinclude:: ../test/force_torque_sensor_broadcaster_params.yaml
   :language: yaml

Commit message:

Add filtering capability to ft_broadcaster (#1814)
Co-authored-by: Denis Štogl <denis@stogl.de>
Co-authored-by: Guillaume Walck <guihome@wanadoo.fr>
Co-authored-by: Christoph Froehlich <christoph.froehlich@ait.ac.at>
Co-authored-by: Bence Magyar <bence.magyar.robotics@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Christoph Fröhlich <christophfroehlich@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Xavier Guay <xavguay@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Aarav Gupta <amronos275@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Oscar Lima <olima_84@yahoo.com>
Co-authored-by: Hilary Luo <103377417+hilary-luo@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Sai Kishor Kothakota <saisastra3@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Sai Kishor Kothakota <sai.kishor@pal-robotics.com>

force_torque_sensor_broadcaster/doc/userdoc.rst, after:

:github_url: https://github.com/ros-controls/ros2_controllers/blob/{REPOS_FILE_BRANCH}/force_torque_sensor_broadcaster/doc/userdoc.rst

.. _force_torque_sensor_broadcaster_userdoc:

Force Torque Sensor Broadcaster
--------------------------------
Broadcaster of messages from force/torque state interfaces of a robot or sensor.
The published message type is ``geometry_msgs/msg/WrenchStamped``.

The broadcaster also supports filtering the force/torque readings using a filter chain, enabling the sequential application of multiple filters. In this case, an additional topic with the
``_filtered`` suffix will be published containing the final result. For more details on filters, refer to the `filters package repository <https://github.com/ros/filters>`_.
See the parameter section for instructions on configuring a filter chain with an arbitrary number of filters.

The controller is a wrapper around ``ForceTorqueSensor`` semantic component (see ``controller_interface`` package).

Parameters
^^^^^^^^^^^
This controller uses the `generate_parameter_library <https://github.com/PickNikRobotics/generate_parameter_library>`_ to handle its parameters. The parameter `definition file located in the src folder <https://github.com/ros-controls/ros2_controllers/blob/{REPOS_FILE_BRANCH}/force_torque_sensor_broadcaster/src/force_torque_sensor_broadcaster_parameters.yaml>`_ contains descriptions for all the parameters used by the controller.

The interfaces can be defined in two ways, using the ``sensor_name`` or the ``interface_names`` parameter:
Those two parameters cannot be defined at the same time.

The filter chain is configured as a sequential list of filters under the ``sensor_filter_chain`` parameter, where each filter is identified by the key ``filterN``, with ``N`` representing its position in the chain (e.g., ``filter1``, ``filter2``, etc.).
Each filter entry must specify the ``name`` and ``type`` of the plugin, along with any additional parameters required by that specific filter plugin. The chain will use the `pluginlib <https://github.com/ros/pluginlib>`_ library to load each filter at runtime,
passing the specified parameters.

The chain processes the data sequentially, passing the output of one filter as the input to the next.

Full list of parameters:

.. generate_parameter_library_details:: ../src/force_torque_sensor_broadcaster_parameters.yaml
  parameters_context.yaml

An example parameter file for this controller can be found in `the test directory <https://github.com/ros-controls/ros2_controllers/blob/{REPOS_FILE_BRANCH}/force_torque_sensor_broadcaster/test/force_torque_sensor_broadcaster_params.yaml>`_:

.. literalinclude:: ../test/force_torque_sensor_broadcaster_params.yaml
   :language: yaml
